[Music]
October 10th 3 days after hamas's attack
on Israel and France's most watched News
Channel bfm TV is reporting an
incendiary claim that among hamas's
victims were 40
[Music]
infants the reporter making that claim a
claim which was soon disproven was not
one of bm's own he worked for I24 news
an Israeli Pro Netanyahu channel that
has the same owner as bfm the French
Israeli billionaire Patrick drai it was
I24 news that first reported the dead
baby's claim babies their heads caught
off that's what they said throughout
this war bfm has relied on I24 news for
much of its coverage and it
shows bfm TV has acted as a message
relay medium for the Israeli military a
lot of space was given to a
representative of the army and that gave
him a platform to spread
propaganda the fact that there is a
through line from a propaganda Channel
like I24 news to a French News Channel
which is required to cover the news
impartially is an ethical problem I
don't even dare to imagine the reaction
in France if we had a 24-hour outlet
that broadcast from a Russian Channel
there's impunity when it comes to
Israel senior editorial staff at bfm
have themselves taken issue with the
Channel's coverage complaining to
management about a lack of balance among
their misgivings the repeated interviews
with a certain
julianah described to viewers as a
French Israeli living in Tel Aviv or a
specialist in Israeli Society bahul is
in fact a former spokesperson for the
Israeli military as well as a former
journalist for I24 news bfm did not
respond to our request for comment
however some of those disgruntled
journalists at the channel say its
reporting has begun to improve coverage
of the war by France's publicly funded
news outlets and some of its newspapers
has been more even-handed but that still
leaves plenty of others in an
increasingly right-wing media landscape
pushing some d
divisive
[Music]
narratives I've often had the impression
that the French media were telling us a
story of civilization against
[Music]
barbarism several commentators have told
us we absolutely cannot compare a child
killed by Hamas on October 7th and a
baby killed by Israeli bombings in
Gaza
what has greatly affected the media
coverage is that there are very very few
Palestinian voices on TV panels in most
cases there are none we are invisible in
the French media landscape and so there
are no voices to Prov a counternarrative
to correct lies to correct an analysis
that has dehumanized the Palestinian
cause instead for two or three weeks we
found ourselves in an endless debate
about who considers Hamas as a terrorist
group who does not who condemns it who
does not without ever going into the
real issues in any
depth since 2015 in France we have been
very sensitive to the risk of islamist
attacks and what we saw on October 7th
reminded us of the attacks we've had in
France so it was the nature of October
7th that led to it being interpreted in
that way even so all opinions are
represented in the French media as they
are in most western media and as I would
hope at Al jazer as
well the discourse in France over the
war in Gaza is unique because of two
factors one historical the other
demographic there was France's role in
the world war to Holocaust when the
government installed by the Nazi
occupation helped deport an estimated
75,000 Jews to the death camps and
modern day France is home to Europe's
largest populations of both Jews and
Muslims that Demands a delicate approach
on the part of the macron government
which for the most part has been missing
macron's interior Minister Geral Daman
set the tone quickly imposing a
nationwide ban specifically on Pro
Palestine protests citing a risk of
quote public order disturbances
France's Top Court later watered down
that policy which demonstrators had
ignored anyway risking arrest in their
thousands dharma's lopsided approach
towards bigoted attacks has also riled
people since early in the war he has
toured French TV studios sharing
government figures on the surge in
anti-semitic incidents it took weeks of
pressure from Muslim Community leaders
before darh manam published the stats
for islamophobia which has also spiked
multiple right voices in the media have
been using the rise in anti-Semitism to
delegitimize Pro Palestine protesters
and to demonize
Muslims during the war the issue of
islamophobia has somewhat disappeared
from the coverage what's more there are
islamophobic media outlets in France the
most scandalous is C news owned by the
billionaire vanon bore who is a Catholic
fundamentalist he has become extremely
powerful and his news Outlet spread
islamophobia on C News hosts like Pascal
PR or son mabruk always emphasized that
Muslims can't integrate that they can't
understand the values of the French
Republic these media personalities read
the Israel Palestine conflict as the
expression of an incompatibility between
democracy and in the Arab Muslim
world the coverage by these far-right
news outlets has argued that if we are
pro Palestinian we are necessarily
anti-semitic and drawing links with
theories about terrorism and islamism
but we must not forget that many people
from immigrant backgrounds in Europe
come from the history of
decolonization we are facing one of the
last Colonial conflicts in the world and
so it's normal that people who come from
these anti-colonial struggles rally
around the pal inan
Caan